DUNGEON!  (TM)  -- Fantasy Board Game
by David R. Megarry
(C) 1975, 1980, 1981, TSR Hobbies, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
Product 1010.

[OCR transcription of the physical rulebook (6 pages), for reference/accuracy
 checking against DUNGEON-RULES.md. Transcribed from "Game Manual.pdf".]

========================================================================
GAME PARTS:
Your copy of DUNGEON! Fantasy Board Game should contain the following parts:
  Game board
  Cards (61 Monsters, 80 Treasures, and 24 Spells)
  Counters (110 Dead Monster counters and 15 pairs of numbered Stack counters)
  2 Dice
  8 Pawns (Blue, green, red and white; 2 each)
If this is the first time you are playing DUNGEON!, you should read and play the
attached Introductory Game first.

OBJECT OF THE GAME:
Each type of Dungeon Adventurer needs a different amount of treasure to win. Each
player tries to gather Treasure Cards. When a player gathers enough Treasure Cards
of a total value equal to or greater than the amount needed for the player's Dungeon
Adventurer, the player must then return with the treasure to Start. The first player
to carry enough treasure to Start wins.

NUMBER OF PLAYERS:
Two to eight people may play. However, if someone else cannot be found to play the
game, it is possible to play the game by oneself.

THE GAME BOARD:
The game board shows the six levels of a dungeon which lies beneath a large, haunted
castle. The dungeon is entered by moving down a main staircase (Start) which leads to
the first level of the dungeon, the level closest to the surface. From the first level
the Dungeon Adventurer may move down other stairs to the second, third and fourth
levels, and so on, each of these levels deeper underground than the last one. The most
dangerous monsters live on the deepest levels, but the most valuable treasures are also
found there.

The dungeon game board is divided into several types of areas:
  -- The narrow yellow stone paths are Corridors.
  -- The series of corridor spaces with rounded ends are Stairs.
  -- The very large, yellow spaces are Chambers: each chamber has a name written in it.
     Chambers are on the same dungeon level as the rooms which surround them.
  -- The large colored rectangles are Rooms: all of the rooms on the same level are
     colored the same; for example, the first level rooms are all colored gold.
  -- Corridors, chambers and rooms are bounded by gray Walls, which cannot be moved
     through, except at doors or secret doors.
  -- The brown bars in the walls are Doors.
  -- The white dashed lines in the walls are Secret Doors.

SETTING UP THE GAME:
Lay the game board out in the center of a table. Separate the cards and sort them into
piles of Monster cards and Treasure cards by the colors and dungeon level on the back
of the cards. There should be two piles for each dungeon level, a total of six Monster
card piles and six Treasure card piles. Shuffle each pile of cards and place them face
down near the board.
There are also 24 Wizard's Spell cards which should be separated and placed in a pile,
but these cards do not need to be shuffled because wizards are allowed to pick their own
Spells. (See the section on WIZARD SPELLS following.)
Now separate the Dead Monster counters (the counters with graves on them) from the pairs
of numbered Stack Marker counters and place the piles near the board. The game is now
ready to play!

TYPES OF DUNGEON ADVENTURERS:
Each player will select one of the following Dungeon Adventurer types to play in the game.
A different colored pawn or playing piece is used to represent each Dungeon Adventurer type.
There may never be more of one type of adventurer than there are pawns of that color. Each
adventurer type has different abilities and needs different amounts of treasure to win.
Elves and Heroes are the weakest fighters, but they do not need a lot of treasure to win,
and therefore do not have to fight the really tough and dangerous monsters. Superheroes and
Wizards are better fighters, but need more treasure to win and must fight the more dangerous
monsters.

  Elf: Green pawns are elves. Elves are the weakest fighters of the Dungeon Adventurers and
  they should stay on dungeon levels 1-3 (the gold, green and orange rooms) to be safe. They
  may try deeper dungeon levels if they want, but they may meet monsters that they cannot
  fight. Elves have a better chance to open Secret Doors than other adventurers do, finding
  and opening a Secret Door on a roll of 1-4 on a single die. An elf needs a total treasure
  value of 10,000 gold pieces to win.

  Hero: Blue pawns are heroes. Heroes are slightly better fighters than elves and should stay
  on dungeon levels 1-4 (the gold, green, orange and purple rooms) to be safe. If a hero tries
  to fight monsters on the fifth or sixth level, he or she may meet a monster that is too tough
  to fight. A hero also needs a total treasure value of 10,000 gold pieces to win.

  Superhero: Red pawns are superheroes. Superheroes are the most powerful fighters and they
  should try to get the more valuable treasures on dungeon levels 3-5 (the orange, purple, and
  red rooms). They may try to gain treasures from the upper levels (levels 1 and 2), but the
  treasures there are small in value. They may also try level 6, but the monsters on level 6
  are tough to defeat, even for a superhero. A superhero needs a total treasure value of 20,000
  gold pieces to win.

  Wizard: White pawns are wizards. Wizards are good fighters, but not the best fighters. They
  fight most of the monsters almost as well as a Hero, as well as a Superhero. Wizards may NOT
  use Magic Swords (a special treasure). A wizard's real strength is the ability to use Spells,
  which in most cases makes it easier to defeat a monster. Because wizards are so powerful, they
  should search dungeon levels 4-6 (the purple, red and blue rooms) for the most valuable
  treasures. They may try the upper dungeon levels, but though the monsters there are easy to
  defeat, the treasures are not valuable enough to be worth the time. A wizard must work hard to
  get enough treasure, because he or she needs a total treasure value of 30,000 gold pieces to
  win.

PLAYING ORDER:
To see who will move first, each player should roll the two dice. If there is a tie, the players
who tie should roll the dice again until one gets a higher roll. The player with the highest score
moves first, followed by the player to his or her left. Play continues clockwise around the board.
This playing order remains the same throughout the game.
To begin the game, the player who moves first chooses a Dungeon Adventurer pawn and places it at
Start. The next player chooses a Dungeon Adventurer from the remaining pawns and places it at Start,
until all of the players have chosen a pawn. Now the first player may begin by moving his pawn.

SEQUENCE OF PLAY:
Each player should complete the following actions in the order given, during his or her turn:
  1. MOVE
  2. CHOOSE ATTACK or SPELL (if a Monster is met)
  3. DRAW MONSTER CARD
  4. PLAYER'S ATTACK (Roll 2 dice.)
  5. MONSTER'S ATTACK (Roll 2 dice if player fails to slay monster.)
  6. DRAW TREASURE CARD (If monster is slain.)
Once a player completes all of these actions during his or her turn, the player to the left then
takes his or her turn.

HOW TO WIN:
A player wins the game when he or she returns to Start at the Main Staircase and has gathered enough
Treasure to win based on the Dungeon Adventurer type being played. Be careful not to let the other
players know how much treasure you have. The total value in gold pieces needed to win is:
  Gold Piece Value      Dungeon Adventurer
      10,000            ELF or HERO
      20,000            SUPERHERO
      30,000            WIZARD

MOVEMENT:
Each player may move his or her pawn up to FIVE spaces each turn. Corridor spaces, Stair spaces,
Chambers and Rooms each count as one space. A player may move less than five spaces, or not at all,
if he or she so wishes. Movement from Start to the Main Gallery on the first level counts as one
space of movement.
Note: Do NOT roll the dice to move; all Dungeon Adventurers always move at the same rate of up to
five spaces each turn.
Players may move their pieces in any direction and may change direction at any time. No more than
one playing piece may be on any one space at the same time, except in Chambers. Players may move
their pieces over another player's piece, but if a piece would end its move on the same space as
another player's Dungeon Adventurer, then the moving player must stop one space short of the other
piece. Any number of playing pieces can be in a Chamber at the same time.
A door does not count as a space, but a door may not be opened unless the player is able to move his
or her piece through the door that turn.
If a player moves his or her piece into a Room or Chamber in which there is a Monster, he or she may
not move the pawn any further that turn and must fight the Monster. However, if a player starts a
turn with his or her piece in a space with a Monster may leave that space during the turn or attempt
to kill the Monster. If the Dungeon Adventurer stays in that space for the turn, the Monster must be
fought at the end of the turn.
A player always chooses the direction his or her pawn moves, except when retreating from a Monster
after combat.

SECRET DOORS:
In order to move through a Secret Door a Dungeon Adventurer must first find the Secret Door. The
Secret Door may not be found unless the player is able to move his or her piece through the door that
turn.
To find a Secret Door a player moves his piece next to the Secret Door and then rolls one die. If a 1
or 2 is rolled, then the Secret Door has been found, the door may be opened, and then the player may
move his or her piece the rest of its movement spaces. If the Secret Door is not found, the player may
not move through the door and may not move any further that turn.
An Elf will find a Secret Door if a 1, 2, 3, or 4 is rolled on one die. If a player has the special
treasure, Secret Door card, he or she should treat the Secret Door as a normal Door, and does not need
to roll a die to find it.
A player may try to find a Secret Door for as many turns as he or she wants. If a player finds and moves
through a Secret Door, that Secret Door is no longer secret to him or her, and should be treated as a
normal Door for that player for the rest of the game. A Secret Door may not be moved through by any
other player's piece, except those who have found it.

COMBAT:
In order to gain enough treasure to win, the Dungeon Adventurer will need to fight the monsters which
guard them. Every Room has one Monster and one Treasure of the dungeon level it is on, plus any
treasures which have been dropped by players during combat in that Room. Chambers do not have any
Treasure in them, except for treasure dropped by players during combat. However, Chambers do have a
total of three Monsters in their space. These three Monsters are not fought all at once: another
Monster card is drawn each time someone enters or ends a turn in the Chamber, until there are three
dead monsters in the Chamber. There can never be more than one living Monster in a Chamber or a Room
at a single time. There are no Monsters in the Main Gallery on the first level; they are frightened
away by the fresh air and sunlight.
Combat will occur whenever a player moves his or her Dungeon Adventurer into a Room or Chamber in
which there is a Monster. In order to fight the Monster, a player must say he or she is entering a Room
or Chamber and attacking. Once a player attacks a Monster, he or she may not move any more that turn,
except to retreat. If a Dungeon Adventurer has a choice of Rooms or Chambers which may be entered to
fight monsters, the player must first say which one he or she will enter, before drawing a Monster Card.
Wizards may choose to either use a Spell or fight a Monster. However, a wizard must decide whether to
fight or use a Spell, and which Spell to use, before drawing a Monster Card. A player may not change his
or her mind once the Monster Card has been drawn, until the next turn.

Drawing a Monster Card:
When a Dungeon Adventurer enters a Room or Chamber, a Monster Card must be drawn from the monster pile
of the level the player's pawn is on. The card will be the same color as the rooms of the dungeon level.
A card should not be drawn if a Monster Card has already been chosen for a Room or Chamber and is still
in the space. Also, a card does not need to be drawn if there is one Dead Monster counter in a Room or
three Dead Monster counters in a Chamber; this means the Room or Chamber is empty and will remain empty
for the rest of the game.

Player's Attack:
Once a Monster Card has been drawn, the player should turn it over and look at its face. Each Monster
Card has the name of a Monster on it and a picture of that Monster. On the right side of the card is a
table which shows the number needed on the roll of two dice to slay that Monster. Numbers are listed for
each of the Dungeon Adventurer types and for the Spells (Fire Ball and Lightning Bolt). A dash (--)
after one of the names shows that the attacker cannot normally slay that Monster.
To fight a Monster, the player should look at the number on the card shown next to his or her Dungeon
Adventurer type and roll two dice. If the dice score is equal to or greater than the number shown on the
Monster Card, the Monster has been killed.
  For example: Kevin, the Hero, enters a Room on the fourth level and draws the following Monster Card:
      Troll
      Lightning . --
      Fire Ball . . 7
      Wizard . . . 8
      Superhero . 8
      Hero . . . . 10
      Elf . . . . . . 9
  He looks on the card next to the Dungeon Adventurer HERO and finds the number 10. If Kevin rolls a 10,
  11, or 12 on two dice, he will slay the Monster. If he rolls 9 or less, he will fail.
When a Monster is killed, a Dead Monster counter should be placed in the Room or Chamber in which the
Monster was found. The Monster Card should then be placed in a discard pile beside the monster pile from
which it was drawn. Once all of the cards of one pile have been placed in a discard pile, turn the discard
pile over and reshuffle the cards to use again.
If a Monster in a Room is slain, the player should then draw one Treasure from the treasure pile of that
dungeon level. Any other treasures which were dropped by players and guarded by the Monster may also be
picked up.
Once the Monster in a Room is killed and the Monster's Treasure taken, or once all three Monsters in a
Chamber are killed, the space becomes empty and no new Monsters or Treasures will be found in that space
for the rest of the game.
However, if the player rolls less than the number shown on the Monster Card, then the Monster has not
been killed and it is now the Monster's turn to attack!

Monster's Attack:
A monster which is not slain by a player during his or her attack will attack that player's Dungeon
Adventurer if the piece is in the same space as the monster. The player should roll two dice and look at
the MONSTER ATTACK table below to see what happens.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
MONSTER ATTACK
  Dice Roll   Result
      2       Adventurer killed! Drop all Treasures. (May re-enter game; see rules.)
      3       Wounded! Drop all Treasures; place pawn at Start and lose next turn.
     4-5      Retreat two spaces; drop one Treasure; lose next turn.
      6       Retreat one space; drop one Treasure.
      7       No effect; next turn may leave space or attack.
      8       Retreat one space; drop one Treasure.
     9-10     Retreat two spaces; drop one Treasure; lose next turn.
     11       No effect; next turn may leave space or attack.
     12       Wounded! Drop all Treasures; place pawn at Start and lose next turn.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Explanations of Monster Attacks:
Adventurer killed! The player's Dungeon Adventurer is killed by the monster and taken off the board. All
of the player's treasures are lost. The player to the left must shut his or her eyes and draw two of the
dead adventurer's Treasure Cards. These cards should be reshuffled into the treasure piles of the correct
dungeon levels. The rest of the player's Treasure Cards are placed beneath the Monster Card to guard them
(see Drop Treasure below).
If an adventurer dies, the player may re-enter the game by beginning a new Dungeon Adventurer at Start. If
the player chooses to re-enter the game, he or she first loses one turn. The player must then choose a
Dungeon Adventurer type weaker than his or her original one. Thus, if a player began as a Wizard and that
adventurer died, he or she could re-enter the game as a Superhero, Hero or Elf, but not as another Wizard.
A player who started as an Elf may return as an Elf. If there are no pawns of a weaker adventurer type left
to use, the player is out of the game. When a player re-enters as a new adventurer, all Secret Doors are
once again secret to that player.

Wounded! The player's Dungeon Adventurer is hurt by the Monster and must return to Start to be healed.
However, the player must leave all of his or her Treasures behind. The player to the left of the wounded
player should shut his or her eyes and draw two of the wounded player's Treasure Cards. These cards should
be reshuffled into the treasure piles of the correct dungeon levels. The rest of the player's Treasure
Cards are placed beneath the Monster Card to guard them (see Drop Treasure below).

Retreat! The player must move his or her piece backwards in the direction it came from, moving the number
of spaces given. The player may not move less than or more than the number of spaces given, unless the
movement would put the piece on the same space as another player's piece. If this is the case, the pawn
stops one space before the other piece. The player should not move his or her piece into a space with a
Monster in it if there is any other way to move, even if this means that the player is not moving backwards
as told to. If the player cannot retreat to a space without a Monster in it, then he or she must move into
the space with a Monster and fight the Monster right away. A Wizard may not use spells when retreating. When
the second Monster attacks, the player must follow the new instructions to finish his or her turn. The new
Monster's attack will add on to the first Monster's attack. Thus, if the first attack says "Retreat two
spaces; drop one Treasure; lose next turn" and the second Monster's attack says the same thing, then the
player must retreat two more spaces, drop one more Treasure, and lose two turns.

Drop Treasure! The player must lose as many Treasures as told to. The player is always allowed to choose
which Treasure he or she wants to drop, and it is usually smart to drop the least valuable Treasure. The
player should put the Treasure Cards beneath the Monster Card which attacked him or her and place that stack
of cards on the table near the board. The player should then take two Stack counters with the same number on
them (for example, two counters with a number 3 on them) and place one on top of the stack of cards and the
other in the space where the Monster is. This way, when someone enters the same Room or Chamber, he or she
will already know what is in that space by looking at the stack of cards with the same number as the counter
in the space. Never draw a Monster Card if there is already a Stack counter in the space.

Lose next turn! The player should tip his or her piece over to show that it has lost a turn. On the next turn
the player should just stand the piece up, but may not move or fight that turn.

NOTE: If the Monster is not guarding any Treasures stolen from players, the player should discard the Monster
Card once he or she stops attacking the Monster and moves away.

SPECIAL MONSTER CARDS:
A few of the Monster Cards are Traps. If a player draws a Trap, he or she will not have to fight a monster,
but must do what the Trap card says:
  Cage! Lose 1-6 Turns: If this Trap is drawn, a cage has fallen on the Dungeon Adventurer, trapping him or
  her. The player must roll one die to find out how many turns are lost before the adventurer can escape from
  the Trap. Once the adventurer has escaped from the Trap, the player may draw one Treasure, if in a Room, and
  then may leave this space.
  Slide! Dropped to a Chamber One Level Deeper: If this Trap is drawn, the Dungeon Adventurer has fallen
  through a trapdoor and onto a slide which drops him or her to the next deeper level. If the player's piece is
  in a Room when the Trap was drawn, he or she should first draw one Treasure Card from that level. Then the
  player must move his or her piece to any Chamber one level deeper than the level on which the Trap was drawn.
  The player may choose which of the Chambers on that level to move his or her piece to. If there is a Monster
  there, the player must fight it that turn, just as if the adventurer had moved his or her piece into that
  Chamber normally.

WIZARD SPELLS:
Wizards are not the most powerful fighters, but they are able to use magic Spells once per turn. This makes
them the strongest Dungeon Adventurer type in the game. A wizard is sometimes even a better fighter than
certain magical monsters than a superhero, because wizards know the weaknesses of those monsters. However,
because wizards use Spells, they may not use Magic Swords. If a wizard draws a Magic Sword, a second Treasure
Card should be drawn and the Magic Sword should be returned to the treasure pile and shuffled in.
Before the game begins each player who has chosen a Wizard piece should roll one die and add 6 to the number
rolled, for a total of 7 to 12 (6+1 to 6+6). This is the total number of spells that the wizard may carry
during the game at any one time. The wizard may never carry more than this number of spells, but may carry
less.
Each wizard may choose the spells he or she wants to carry from the pile of Spell Cards. If there is more
than one wizard in a game, those two players should roll one die each. The player who rolls the highest score
then chooses one Spell Card first. Next the other player chooses a Spell Card, and then the first player
chooses another card, and so on, until both wizards have chosen the total number of spells they may carry.
Any extra cards left are put into a discard pile beside the board.
When a wizard wishes to use one of his or her spells during a turn, the player chooses one of the Spell Cards
in his or her hand and places it on the board in the space where it is being used. At the end of the turn the
player should put the used Spell Card in the discard pile by the board. A wizard must choose his or her spell
before drawing a Monster Card.
If a wizard wants to attack a Monster with a Spell, he or she must be able to move into the Room or Chamber on
his or her turn, just as if the wizard was going to fight the Monster. However, the player only moves the
playing piece to the door of the Room or to one space before the Chamber and then uses the Spell. If the
wizard kills the Monster with a spell, then he or she moves the playing piece into the monster's space at the
end of the turn and may pick up any treasure found there. If the Monster is not killed, it does not get to
attack the Dungeon Adventurer, because he or she is not in the same space. In either case the Spell Card used
is placed in the discard pile at the end of the turn.

Spell Types:
There are three different types of spells from which a player may choose:
  Fire Ball -- This spell may be used to attack a Monster from the entrance of a Room or Chamber, and the
  Monster will not be able to attack the player's pawn. Some monsters are hurt more easily with a Fire Ball
  than a Lightning Bolt, and there are some monsters that cannot be killed by a Fire Ball (these are marked
  with a dash, "--").
  Lightning Bolt -- This spell may be used to attack a Monster without entering its space and letting it
  attack the Dungeon Adventurer. Some monsters are more easily hurt with a Lightning Bolt than with a Fire
  Ball, and there are some monsters that cannot be killed by a Lightning Bolt (these are marked on the Monster
  Card with a dash, "--").
  Teleport -- This spell is used for taking shortcuts in the dungeon. It may not be used to attack monsters, so
  this spell only affects the wizard using it. This spell may only be used in Chambers, and is used before
  combat. This spell lets the player pick up his or her piece from the Chamber it is in and put it in any other
  Chamber on the same dungeon level or in a Chamber on the dungeon level just above or below the level the
  wizard started the turn on. A wizard just moves his or her piece into a Chamber, plays a Teleport card, and
  moves the piece to the Chamber of the player's choice. A wizard does not have to fight any Monster in the
  Chamber where the piece came from, but he or she must fight any Monster met in the Chamber teleported to. A
  wizard may not use a Spell to attack a Monster in the Chamber he or she has teleported to.

Regaining Spells:
Wizards may get more spells once they have used up some of the spells they were carrying. To get more spells,
the wizard should first return to Start, where wizards store their very heavy magic books. Then, for each turn
the piece stays on Start, the player may choose one Spell Card from the Spell pile. The Wizard may not take
more spells than he or she started the game with, but he or she may take different spells, such as more Fire
Balls and no more Teleports, if the player wants.

TREASURES:
When a player slays a monster in a room (not a chamber), that player may then draw a Treasure Card. The
Treasure Card is drawn from the Treasure Pile that is the same dungeon level as the room. The card will be the
same color as the room. The player does not have to show anyone else the Treasure Card unless it is a Special
Treasure and the adventurer uses it during the game.
Each Treasure Card has a treasure value printed on the bottom of the card. Each time a player draws a treasure,
the player should add up all of the treasure values of the treasures he or she has, to see if the total is
enough to win the game by returning to Start.
When the Monster Attack result says "Drop a Treasure", the player may choose which Treasure Card to drop.
Usually this should be the card that has the lowest treasure value.

SPECIAL TREASURE CARDS:
  Secret Door Card: This card represents a magic wand which finds Secret Doors, and allows the player with this
  card to move through them as if they were normal Doors. No die roll is necessary to find a Secret Door when
  this card is held. Even if this treasure is lost, all Secret Doors passed through before it was lost should be
  treated as normal doors by the player for the rest of the game.

  Magic Sword: A Magic Sword is an enchanted weapon. When one of these cards is held, the player adds +1 (or +2)
  to his or her dice roll when trying to slay monsters. Only one Magic Sword at a time may be used by a player.
  When a Magic Sword is found on a certain level of the dungeon, the player finding it must immediately roll two
  dice to determine the strength of its enchantment:
                        +1                +2
    Found on 1st Level  Roll of 2 to 11   Roll of 12
    Found on 2nd Level  Roll of 2 to 9    Roll of 10 to 12
    Found on 4th Level  Roll of 2 to 8    Roll of 9 to 12
    Found on 6th Level  Roll of 2 to 6    Roll of 7 to 12
  When a Magic Sword is used in any attack upon a monster, the +1 or +2 is added to the normal attack dice roll
  of the player. Thus, if a player normally needs to roll an 8 or better to slay a Monster, a roll of only 7 or
  better would be needed with a +1 sword (since 7 + 1 = 8), or a roll of only 6 or better would be needed with a
  +2 sword (since 6 + 2 = 8).
  Magic Swords also allow combat against Monsters which normally could not be fought by a certain type of Dungeon
  Adventurer (those shown on the card with a dash, "--", next to their name of Dungeon Adventurer). When these
  Monsters are fought, a dice roll of 12 (for +1 swords) or 11 or better (for +2 swords) will kill them.
  Note: Magic Swords also have a value in gold pieces and should be counted in the treasure total.
  Wizards may not use Magic Swords. If a wizard should draw a Magic Sword, the player should draw a second
  Treasure Card and then discard the Magic Sword and shuffle it back into the treasure pile.

  ESP Medallion: The ESP Medallion enables its owner to look at a Monster Card before having to fight it. When a
  player holding an ESP Medallion moves next to a Door behind which a Monster lurks, or one space away from a
  Chamber which contains a Monster, the player can look at that one Monster Card without showing anyone else. The
  player may then choose to attack, use a spell, or decide not to attack. If the player does not attack, then the
  turn is ended and the Monster Card is discarded.

  Crystal Ball: The Crystal Ball enables its owner to "see" into any Room of his or her choice, one at a time. The
  player's Dungeon Adventurer may not move on the turn he or she uses a Crystal Ball. Instead, the player chooses a
  Room and draws both a Monster and Treasure Card for that level, views them without showing others, and places
  them face down near the game board, using the numbered Stack Markers to mark their location. They remain there
  until encountered by any Dungeon Adventurer (where they are handled normally), or until the player holding the
  Crystal Ball attempts to "see" into another room (at which time they are discarded).

PLAYING SOLO:
DUNGEON! Fantasy Board Game can easily be played solitaire in many different ways.
One way to play alone is to play against a time limit. The player is trying to win before his or her time runs
out. A timer should be set for 30 minutes, to begin with, and the player should try to win before the 30 minutes
is up. After that, when the player becomes good at the game, he or she should shorten the time to 25, 20 or 15
minutes.
Another way to play is to search for a certain treasure in the lower levels of the dungeon. The player can either
play against time or until his or her Dungeon Adventurer has died twice.
A third way to play solo is to draw a 6th level Monster Card, and place it face down beside the board. Then a pawn
is chosen to represent this monster and placed in a room on the 6th level. The monster will move after the player,
moving five spaces a turn, and always taking the shortest path towards the player's pawn. The monster treats all
Secret Doors as normal Doors. This Monster will not attack or be attacked by other monsters. The player must
attempt to win the game before the monster catches and kills the Dungeon Adventurer. If the monster is killed, its
card should be shuffled in with the rest of the 6th level monsters and another card drawn which starts in a room on
the 6th level and chases the player.

CLEANING UP:
When the game ends, each player should help pick up the cards and place them back in the proper piles. Each pile
should then have only cards that are all the same color in it. Treasure Cards and Monster Cards of the same color
should be kept separate. Each pile of cards should be shuffled and a rubber band should be wrapped around it so
that all the cards don't get mixed up into one big mess. The game will then be ready to play the next time, because
each pile of cards is already sorted out and shuffled.

CREDITS:
  Design: David R. Megarry
  Development: Gary Gygax
  Revised by: Harold Johnson
  Revision Assistance: Gary Gygax, Allen Hammack, Kevin Hendryx
  Editor: Harold Johnson
  Editing: Brian Blume, Mike Carr, Allen Hammack, Evan Robinson, Lawrence Schick
  Box Cover: Jim Roslof
  Gameboard Revision: Jim Roslof
  Card Art: David S. LaForce, Jim Roslof
