DUNGEON!  --  INTRODUCTORY GAME
(C) 1980, 1981, TSR Hobbies, Inc., All Rights Reserved.

[OCR transcription of the physical Introductory Game booklet (2 pages), for
 reference. Transcribed from "Introductory Game.pdf".]

========================================================================
This Introductory Game contains all the basic information needed to play DUNGEON!
Fantasy Board Game. It allows new players to set up and begin play in a few minutes
without needing to read the more detailed rulebook. Once the players are familiar with
the basic rules, they will find it much easier to read and understand the complete rules.

PREPARE TO PLAY:
Lay the game board out on a table. Separate the cards into Monster and Treasure piles
according to their color and "Level". Put the Spell Cards back into the box; they will not
be used in the Introductory Game. Also put the fifth and sixth level Monster and Treasure
Cards away. They will not be used either.
Study the game board. The game board is divided into nine parts. Each part is labelled as one
of the six levels of a dungeon, with the third, fourth, and fifth levels having north and
south parts. The dungeon levels are the underground floors of a cellar beneath an old castle.
The first level is the floor closest to the surface, and the sixth level is the floor deepest
underground. The rectangular rooms of each dungeon level are the same color as the cards of
that level. The various parts of the board are --
  The narrow yellow paths are Corridors, divided into spaces by black lines to look like stone
  slabs. The spaces in the corridors with rounded ends are Stairs, which connect one level of
  the dungeon with another. The very large, yellow spaces which have names in them are Chambers.
  Chambers are on the same dungeon level as the Rooms which surround them. Monsters are found in
  Chambers.
  The colored rectangles are Rooms. All of the rooms on the same level are the same color. Each
  Room has one or more doors by which the Room may be entered. The brown bars are normal Doors,
  while the white dashed lines are Secret Doors. Rooms have a Monster in each, but they also
  contain a Treasure.
This game also has Dead Monster counters, the small markers with graves drawn on them. These are
used to mark spaces where a Monster has been killed. There are also counters with numbers written
on them. These counters are used to mark a Room or Chamber that has cards in it. Separate the
counters into two piles. The game is now ready to play.

OBJECT OF THE GAME:
Up to 4 people may play the Introductory Game. Each player chooses either a green or blue playing
piece. The green pieces are ELVES and the blue pieces are HEROES, two types of Dungeon Adventurers.
Heroes fight a little better than Elves do, but Elves have a better chance to find Secret Doors.
The object of the game is for each player to acquire treasure. The players move their pieces about
the board entering the various rooms to slay the evil Monsters found there and take their Treasures.
To win the game, a player must gather enough Treasure Cards whose total value equals 10,000 gold
pieces and then return to Start with the treasure.
In the Introductory Game the players should only move their Dungeon Adventurers through dungeon
levels 1 through 4. Dungeon levels 5 and 6 have monsters which are too tough for Elves and Heroes
to slay. Monsters met on the deeper dungeon levels are harder to slay than those met on the upper
levels. However, Treasures found on the deeper dungeon levels are worth much more. Players must
decide whether they will take the risk of fighting tougher monsters for more valuable treasure, or
fight the easier monsters and take a lot of time to gather enough treasure to win.

HOW TO START:
First, shuffle each pile of cards and place the piles face down next to the board. Each player should
place his or her playing piece on the Start space in the center of the board and then roll the two
dice. If there is a tie on the dice roll, the players who tie should roll the dice again until one
gets a higher roll. The player with the highest score moves first, followed by the player on his or
her left. Play then continues clockwise around the table.

ORDER OF PLAY:
MOVEMENT: Each player may move his or her piece up to 5 spaces each turn. Players may move less than 5
spaces or not move at all if they wish. Corridor spaces, Stair spaces, Rooms and Chambers each count as
one space. The dice are not rolled for movement.
Players may choose to move their pieces in any direction and may change direction at any time. No more
than one playing piece may be on any one space at the same time, except in Chambers. Players may move
their pieces over another player's piece, but if a piece would end its move on the same space as
another player's Dungeon Adventurer, then the first player must stop one space short of the other piece.
Any number of playing pieces can be in a Chamber at the same time.
When a player's Dungeon Adventurer moves into a space which has a Monster in it, he or she must stop for
that turn and fight the Monster. Only Chambers and Rooms have monsters in them.
Doors and Secret Doors: Doors do not count as spaces, but a door may not be opened unless the player can
move enough spaces to move his or her piece through the door that turn. Normal Doors may be opened any
time a player can move his or her piece through them to the space beyond. However, Secret Doors are
hidden and must be found before they may be opened. To find a Secret Door, the playing piece must be next
to the door and the player must roll one die. If the player's Dungeon Adventurer is a Hero, a roll of 1 or
2 is needed; Elves need to roll a 1, 2, 3, or 4 to find a Secret Door. If an attempt to find a Secret Door
fails, the player may not move through the door and may not move any further that turn. Each Dungeon
Adventurer must be rolled for separately to see if he or she finds the Secret Door before that piece may
be moved through the door. Once a player finds a Secret Door, that door is no longer secret to him or her
and should be treated as a normal Door for that player for the rest of the game.

DRAWING A MONSTER CARD: Every Room has one monster and one treasure, and every Chamber has three monsters
and no treasure. There are no Monsters in the Main Gallery on the first level; they have been scared away.
Whenever a Dungeon Adventurer enters a Room or Chamber, the player should draw one Monster Card from the
monster pile of the same dungeon level, unless the space is "empty" or there is a card already in the space.
Whenever a monster is killed a Dead Monster counter is placed in the space where the monster was killed. One
Dead Monster counter in a Room means that the Room is "empty". Since Chambers have three monsters, every time
a Dungeon Adventurer enters a Chamber another Monster Card should be drawn until there are 3 Dead Monster
counters in the Chamber and the Chamber is then "empty".

COMBAT: Any time a player moves his or her piece into a space where there is a Monster, the player's Dungeon
Adventurer must fight the monster. The player should draw a Monster Card and look at its face. On the right
side of the card is a table and the player should look next to the name of his or her Dungeon Adventurer type
to find the number needed to slay the monster. The player must roll on two dice. To win, he or she must roll
a number equal to or greater than the number given on the card. Thus, if a Hero needs a 5 to slay a Hobgoblin,
a roll of 5 or better would kill the monster.
When the monster is killed, a Dead Monster counter is placed in the space and the Monster Card is discarded.
Once all of the cards in a monster pile have been drawn, the discard pile should be turned over and shuffled
to be reused.
If the monster is not slain by a player during his or her turn, then the monster gets to attack the player's
Dungeon Adventurer. The player must roll the two dice and look at the MONSTER ATTACK table below to see what
happens.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
MONSTER ATTACK
  Dice Roll   Result
      2       Adventurer killed! Drop all Treasures.
      3       Wounded! Drop all Treasures; place piece at Start and lose next turn.
     4-5      Retreat two spaces; drop one Treasure; lose next turn.
      6       Retreat one space; drop one Treasure.
      7       No effect; next turn may leave space or attack monster.
      8       Retreat one space; drop one Treasure.
     9-10     Retreat two spaces; drop one Treasure; lose next turn.
     11       No effect; next turn may leave space or attack monster.
     12       Wounded! Drop all Treasures; place piece at Start and lose next turn.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adventurer killed! The adventurer is dead and the player is out of the game. The player to the left should
shut his or her eyes and draw two of the dead adventurer's Treasure Cards. These are returned to their
treasure piles and shuffled in. The rest of the player's Treasure Cards are placed face down beside the board
and marked which space the cards are in (see Drop Treasure, below).
Wounded! The player must return his or her Dungeon Adventurer directly to Start to be cured, and loses a turn.
The player must lose all treasures the same way an adventurer who is killed does.
Retreat! The player must move his or her piece backwards in the direction it came from the number of spaces
given. The player should not move his or her piece back into a space where there is a Monster if there is
another way to move. However, if there is no other way to move and the player has to retreat the piece into a
space with a monster, the Dungeon Adventurer must fight the monster right away in that turn. Any results are
added onto the first monster's attack, including losing additional turns.
Drop Treasure! The player may choose what Treasure to drop. Place the Treasure Card beneath the Monster which
attacked the adventurer and place this stack face down near the board. The player should take two Stack counters
with the same number on them, such as two counters with the number 9 on them, and place one on the stack of
cards and the other in the space where the Monster was fought. These cards are now in that space. Do not draw
another Monster Card if there is already a Stack Counter in a space.
Lose next turn! The player has lost a turn. Tip the piece over on its side. The next turn the player should just
stand the piece back up, but may not move or fight that turn.
Note: If the Monster is not guarding any treasures stolen from players, the player should discard the Monster
Card once he or she stops attacking the Monster and moves away.

DRAWING TREASURE CARDS: When a player slays a monster in a Room, that player may then draw one Treasure Card from
that dungeon level. The player may also pick up any other treasures dropped by players and those which the monster
was guarding.
Treasure Cards have a value printed on the bottom of the card. The player should add up the value of all of his or
her treasures every time a new Treasure is drawn. If the total value of the treasures is 10,000 gold pieces or more,
the player should try to return to Start by the safest path, to win the game.

SPECIAL MONSTER CARDS: A few of the Monster Cards are Traps. If a player draws a Trap, he or she will not have to
fight a monster, but must do what the Trap card says.
  Cage! Lose 1-6 Turns: The player must roll one die. The number rolled is the number of turns the player has lost.
  Once the player has lost those turns, one Treasure Card is drawn if in a Room.
  Slide! Dropped to a Chamber One Level Deeper: If the player was in a Room when the Trap was drawn, he or she should
  first draw one Treasure Card from that level. The player must move his or her piece one level deeper than the level
  on which the Trap was drawn, to any Chamber the player chooses. If there is a monster in the Chamber, then the
  adventurer must fight the monster that turn.

Special Treasure Cards:
  Secret Door Card: When this card is held, the player need not roll a die to find Secret Doors, but treats Secret
  Doors as normal Doors. If this treasure is lost, all Secret Doors moved through before it was lost continue to be
  treated as normal Doors for that player.
  Magic Swords: When one of these cards is held, the player may add +1 to his or her dice roll when trying to slay
  monsters. Only one Magic Sword may be used at a time by a player.
  ESP Medallion: This card allows the player holding it to move to the entrance of a Room or Chamber and look at the
  Monster Card in that space before deciding whether or not to attack it. If the player does not choose to attack, the
  Monster Card is discarded.
  Crystal Ball: This card allows the player holding it to look at the Monster and Treasure Card in any Room, no matter
  where the player's piece is on the board. The player's Dungeon Adventurer may not move or fight on the turn he or she
  uses the Crystal Ball. When the Crystal Ball is used the player draws both cards, and after looking at them, places
  the cards face down beside the board with a Stack counter on the space and another in the proper room. The cards
  remain there until any Dungeon Adventurer enters the space and attacks the Monster or until the player holding the
  Crystal Ball tries to "see" into another space (at which point they are discarded).

WINNING THE GAME:
The first player to return to Start, the Main Staircase, with enough treasure whose total value is equal to or greater
than 10,000 gold pieces wins the game!
